# cs310-tic-tac-toe

Information: The project is meant to a model, view, and controller setup as well as GUI to run and complete a game of tic-tac-toe that
accepts input from one to two users. I made the project as a required entry level project in a Software Engineering I course. The purpose of this project was to essentially get us, as students, back into a regular programming pace by refreshing us on GUI programming as well as basic programming using the model, view, controller layout. Git and github were used for source control and the program itself was written in Java using the IDE Netbeans.

TicTacToe: This was one of the base java files given to us by our instructor, in it the file creates the layout size of the tic-tac-toe board, which we were allowed to adjust and tamper with upon completion of the project. It also creates the model, view, and controller objects as well as contains the main loop the game runs on until a winnder is decided and the final bit of code runs showing the winning layout as well as which player won the game.

TicTacToeController: In this java file the model and view are constructed and initialized, a scanner for keyboard input is also created and activated here. Controller also creates a prompt that asks for the players input when it is their turn. Once it receives input from the keyboard it checks to see if the input from the user falls within regulations, if the input is invalid or if the numbers given fall out of the size of the gameboard it sends out an error message from TicTacToe View informing them why it's invalid as well as asking for new input.

TicTacToeModel: Model is the java class where the marks on the board are created before being used and placed in whatever position the user has inputed. Model also holds the game grid size and with along with keeping track of who's turn it is currently. A public tic-tac-toe model is activated here and sets the default width. Model also creates the game grid as a 2D mark array using width and initializes it by filling all the spaces within the board with empty marks. Model is also responsible making marks within the grid but only if the mark specified by the user is within the grid size and if the spot doesn't already have a mark within it. Model is also constantly checking to see if it obtain a result that can end the game and be displayed on the main screen; first it checks the multiple ways in which a victory can be achieved in a game of tic-tac-toe, those being horizontal, vertical, or diagonal. Then it checks to see which player was the one who achieved one of those victory conditions when the search occured. After an end result is found and confirmed the Model ends the game.

TicTacToeView: View has the simplest job between the three classes, only needing to display the board to the console, display a prompt for the next player to make their move, as well as telling them the limits to what they can input. View also displays the error message that occurs when a player provides input that is invalid and finally displays the final winner once a win condition has been met.
